./" this is the man page for Bind User Interface - Configuration Handler
.TH bui-cfgh "01/05/2020" "0.0.1" "bui-cfgh man page"

.SH NAME
bui-cfgh - low level command for handleing bind9 configuration

.SH DESCRIPTION
    This is a low level command you should not be using this, use man bui.
    Beawre that every configuration change, record addition or deletion
    will trigger a "systemctl reload bind9"

.SH COMMANDS

.IP addzone
    As the name sugests it adds an authority zone.
    This option expects the following data on the exact same order
    <zone name> <dns server ip> <TTL> <refresh> <retry> <expire> <network> <netmask> <responsable> <negative cache ttl>
    the only required data are zone name and dns server ip, the rest are optional (the script will use default data if missing)
    network refers to the network id of the authority zone, it is used to handle the reverse DNS.
    netmask refers to the netmask of the authority zone, it is used to handle the reverse DNS.

.IP rzone
    As the name sugests this option deletes an authority zone
    use: rzone <zone name>

.IP addrecord
    This command adds a DNS record to the specified authority zone.
    Use: addrecord com "ex IN CNAME example.com."
    example: bui-cfgh addrecord com "$(bui-common format ex example.com)"

.IP rrecord
    This command removes a DNS record to the specified authority zone.
    Use: rrecord com "ex IN CNAME example.com."
    example: bui-cfgh rrecord com "$(bui-common format ex example.com)"

.IP addr-record
    This command adds a DNS reverse record to the specified authority zone.
    Use: addr-record com "84 IN PTR example.com"
    example: bui-cfgh addr-record com "$(bui-common format 192.168.0.84 example.com)"

.IP rr-record
    This command removes a DNS reverse record to the specified authority zone.
    Use: rr-record com "84 IN PTR example.com"
    example: bui-cfgh rr-record com "$(bui-common format 192.168.0.84 example.com)"

.IP autoreverse
    This command auto-generates the reverse records for all the A and CNAME registers
    of a given authority zone, if nothing or map is specified after the authority zone it will
    include CNAME records on the reversing.
    use: autoreverse com [map|anything]
    example: autoreverse com map # will autoreverse all A and CNAME records
    example: autoreverse com # will autoreverse all A and CNAME records
    example: autoreverse com no # will autoreverse all A records

.IP de-autoreverse
    This command will remove all reverse records for a given zone.
    use: de-autoreverse <zone>
    example: de-autoreverse com # will remvoe all reverse records from com

.IP header
    This command helps you change the database configuration, beawre that it
    expects the followig data in the exact same order
    <authority zone name> <TTL> <REFRESH> <RETRY> <EXPIRE> <RESPONSABLE> <NEGATIVE_CACHE_TTL>
    optionally you can pass a character or word at the end to tell it to configure the corresponding
    reverse database, for example:
    bui-cfgh header com 604800 604800 86400 2419200 root 604800 r

.SH FILES

.IP /etc/bui/zones.sh
    Contains authority zones, dns records and its configurations.

.IP /etc/bui/bindb-defaults.sh
    Script with default values, you should change them here if you want

.IP /etc/bui/zone-db.sample
    Sample database header

.IP /etc/bui/zone-config.sample
    Sample database configuration