./" this is the man page for Bind User Interface - Common
.TH bui-common "01/05/2020" "0.0.0" "bui-common man page"

.SH NAME
bui-common - low level command for bui and bui-cfgh

.SH DESCRIPTION
    This is a low level command you should not be using this, use man bui

.SH COMMANDS

.IP format|--format|-f
    If two arguments are provided it will try to gess what the user is trying to do.
    Possible gesses are: adding an A record, adding a PTR record, adding a CNAME record.
    If three arguments are provided it will just indent the info

.IP reverse-ip <ip> <netmask> [host|network]
    It will spit the reversed IP, if you specify nothing it will give you only the network id part
    if you specify host it will give you the host id part only.

.IP verifyIPV4 <ipv4>[/netmask]
    It checks weather or not the specified IP is valid.
    you can optionally specify the netmask: 192.168.0.1/24
    you should use this command as "source" and declare an associative array to which save the data
    "(declare -A IPV4)".
    If the IP isn't valid an error variable called ERR will be set if the variable is not set the IP is valid
    The ip data will be saved as follows:
    ${IPV4[ip]} containing only the ip
    ${IPV4[mask]} containing only the netmassk
    ${IPV4[0]} containing only the field 1
    ${IPV4[1]} containing only the field 2
    ${IPV4[2]} containing only the field 3
    ${IPV4[3]} containing only the field 4

.IP <name|type|target> parse-record <record>
    Used only for A and CNAME records, it returns de specified part of the record.
    the type if is type specified.
    the name if is name specified.
    the target if is target specified. Being what the record points to.

.IP break-domain <FQDN>
    Splits a string by '.'
    you should use this command as "source" and declare an associative array to which save the data "(declare -A FIELDS)".