./" this is the man page for Bind User Interface
.TH bui "10/05/2020" "0.0.1" "bui-common man page"

.SH NAME
bui - Bind User Interface configure bind9 without dealing with config files

.SH DESCRIPTION
    This commandline tool helps you configure bind9 without dealing with it's configuration files.
    You can add, remove, autogenerate records, for a guiven authority zone, you can also add and remove authority zones on the fly, and the script will take care of reloading the database.

.SH OPTIONS

.IP --all
    When combined with reset, autoreverse and de-autoreverse will cause to match any sub level domain passed through -d

.IP --cname
    When combiend with autoreverse will cause to also map reverse resolution for CNAME records, use with caution or you will end up with invalid records

.IP 

.SH COMMANDS

.IP addzone|--addzone
    This command requires you to pass -d <domain> optionally -IP <IPV4>/<netmask>
    If you don't specify -IP <IPV4>/<netmask> the program will autoload all the current IPs and if it sees more than 1 it will ask you to select one as the DNS server's IP, this is required for the ns1 record and detecting the net id for the reverse DNS resolution.
    example:
        bui addzone -d com -IP 192.168.0.2/24
    or
        bui addzone -d com # beaware this will cause the script to spect user input in case there's more than one IP

.IP remove|--remvove
    This command requires you to pass -d <domain>
    This will remove an authority zone
    example:
        bui remove -d com

.IP auto|--auto|-a
    This command is input order dependant.
    requires two parameters, -d <domain> [optional] -IP <IPV4>
    If you pass the domain first ti will generate and add an A record, if you pass the IP first it will generate and add A PTR record, if you pass a domain twice it will add a CNAME record
    example:
        bui auto -d example.com -IP 192.168.0.66
            will generate an A record example.com which points to the IP 192.168.0.66
        bui auto -IP 192.168.0.66 -d example.com
            will generate a PTR record for the IP 192.168.0.66 which points to example.com
        bui auto -d ex.com -d example.com
            will generate a CNAME record ex.com which points to example.com
    For this to work the top level domain has to exist, in this case "com" is our First level authority zone, to see how to add it to your DNS server check the command addzone

.IP autoreverse|--autoreverse
    This command requires you to pass -d <domain>
    This command auto-generates the reverse resolution for both A and CNAME records.
    by default it does not auto generate the reverse record for CNAME records for this to be true you have to pass the option --cname
    If you pass x level domain that is not the first one it will only reverse that one, if you also say --all it will reverse all x-1 level domains
    example:
    I have the following records
        server      A       192.168.66.8
        sv          CNAME   server.com.
        example     A       192.168.66.9
        ex          CNAME   example.com.
        sub.ex      A       192.168.66.10
        c.sub.ex    CNAME   sub.ex.com.
    If I run:
    bui autoreverse -d com --all or bui autoreverse -d com
        reverses only server.com, example.com, and sub.ex.com
    bui autoreverse -d com --cname
        reverses all the records
    bui autoreverse -d ex.com --cname --all
        reverses ex.com, sub.ex.com and c.sub.ex.com
    bui autoreverse -d ex.com --all
        reverses sub.ex.com

.IP de-autoreverse|--de-autoreverse
    This command requires you to pass -d <domain>
    This command removes the reverse resolution.
    If you pass x level domain that is not the first one it will only remove that one, if you also say --all it will reverse all x-1 level domains
    example:
    I have the following records
        192.168.66.8  PTR    server.com.
        192.168.66.8  PTR    sv.com.
        192.168.66.9  PTR    example.com.
        192.168.66.9  PTR    ex.com.
        192.168.66.10 PTR    sub.ex.com.
        192.168.66.10 PTR    c.sub.ex.com.
    If I run:
    bui de-autoreverse -d com --all
        removes all records
    bui de-autoreverse -d ex.com
        removes only ex.com
    bui de-autoreverse -d ex.com --all
        removes ex.com, sub.ex.com and c.sub.ex.com

.IP --version|-version
    Prints the version of this program